There are many important records that are left in the hands of various organisations of the country such as the   municipalities the corporations the different commercial organisations of the country the Chambers of Commerce etc. As has been mentioned by   some honorable  Members here some are also lying in private hands. The Government of India cannot be held responsible for the management and preservation of these records in Parliament passes the necessary legislation declaring these records as records of national importance.   Under these circumstances we presume that the Resolution of the honorable  Member cover's only those records which lie in the custody of the Government of India the archives of India and the different Ministries of the Central Government. It is true that some of the records are also lying with the State Government on loan. Sir these records in my opinion   can be divided into three groups. The first group is the records which are owned by the Government of India   which are created by the Government of India by the different Ministries of the Government of India. The second   group is the records which have been presented to the Archives of India as are the Bhopal records. The records of the Bhopal Government the former Bhopal Government have been presented to the Archives of India; and the third category   is of those records which are purchased by the Indian Archives. There is of course the fourth variety as has been pointed out by my honorable  friend the mover of the Resolution that a large number of records of the   Central Government are lying with the State Governments. These records have been given on loan to the State Governments because  they are connected with the administration of those States. They are necessary for carrying out the day-to-day administration of those States. That is why it has not been thought proper to take away those records from the States. They are lying with the States but the proprietorship the ownership rests with the - Government of India.


Sir one thing   I may impress upon this House. Although all these records are properties of the Government of India they belong to   the Government of India and they are managed by the Government of India although legally speaking they are managed by   the Government of India by executive action factually speaking they are not so. There is the organisation to which a reference has been made by my honorable  friends the Indian Historical Records Commission. This Commission is there to give its guidance and expert advice to the Government of India for the maintenance of these records. Sir my honorable  friend the   mover of this Resolution is thoroughly acquainted with this organisation because he happens to be a member of that organisation. 


Sir the Indian Historical Records Commission is a body set up by a Resolution of the Government of India in   the year 1919. The functions and authority of the Commission have been made clear in the Resolution itself.


This Indian Historical Records Commission which supervises and guides the activities of the Archives of India and the   management of Indian Government records is a consultative and advisory body but the vast majority of members of this body  are drawn from sources other than the Government of India. The present constitution of the Indian Historical Records Commission is:  The Minister of Education the Secretary of the Education Ministry the Director of Archives and five members nominated by the   Government of India. In addition to that there are 25 representatives of the 25 State Governments of this country. There are 27 representatives of the 27 universities of India. There are 12 representatives of the twelve top-ranking research institutions of this country. Actually Government servants if we can call them are only three the Minister of Education the Secretary of the Education Ministry and the Director of Archives. Five members are nominated by Government. The rest are  drawn from other sources. This is the body Sir that has been appointed under the Resolution of the Government of   India to give expert advice for the management of these matters. Sir this body has got two other adjuncts the Research and Publication Committee which looks after the research and publications of the Indian Archives and the Local Records  Sub-Committee which looks after the transference of records from their parent bodies that is their creative agencies the different Ministries   of the Government of India to the Archives. Then this body the Local Records Sub-Committee also looks after indexing and cataloguing of the records and thirdly weeding of the records also. So what I am labouring to impress upon the   honorable  Members of this House is that in every step every activity of the Indian Archives the Government of India is guided by some expert bodies.


Sir the Indian Historical Records Commission meets once in every year and they survey scrutinise and examine in great detail the activities of the Archives of India. Perhaps the ground they have covered   during the last few years the subjects upon which they have made recommendations will convince this honourable House about the interest that is taken by this body. Sir the Indian Historical Records Commission have advised the Government of India during   the last few years about matters relating to the regional survey committee establishment of record offices in India classification of historical documents and inspection of records preservation of archives. These are only a few of the many aspects of the   activities of the Indian Archives that have been surveyed and upon which recommendations have been made by the Indian Historical Records Commission during the last few years. Sir I do not want to say that all the recommendations that have  been made by the Indian Historical Records Commission have been implemented by the Government of India but what I do  say Sir is that barring a few which could not be implemented either on financial grounds or for other reasons.